README.md, before:

## [BMVC 2023] CounTX: Open-world Text-specified Object Counting
*BMVC'2023 Best Poster Award Winner*

Niki Amini-Naieni, Kiana Amini-Naieni, Tengda Han, & Andrew Zisserman

Official PyTorch implementation for CounTX. Details can be found in the paper.
[[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01851v1) [[Project page]](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/research/countx/)

<img src=img/teaser.png width="100%"/>
<img src=img/architecture.png width="100%"/>

### Contents
* [Preparation](#preparation)
* [CounTX Train](#countx-train)
* [CounTX Inference](#countx-inference)
* [Pre-trained Weights (FSC-147 & CARPK)](#pre-trained-weights)
* [Using New Dataset](https://github.com/niki-amini-naieni/CounTX/issues/2#issuecomment-1961548998)
* [Additional Qualitative Examples](#additional-qualitative-examples)
* [Citation](#citation)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

### Preparation
#### 1. Download Dataset

In our project, the FSC-147 dataset is used.
Please visit following link to download this dataset.

* [FSC-147](https://github.com/cvlab-stonybrook/LearningToCountEverything)

We also use the text descriptions in FSC-147-D provided in this repository.

* [FSC-147-D](https://github.com/niki-amini-naieni/CounTX/blob/main/FSC-147-D.json)

Note that the image names in FSC-147 can be used to identify the corresponding text descriptions in FSC-147-D.

#### 2. Set Up Anaconda Environment:

The following commands will create a suitable Anaconda environment for running the CounTX training and inference procedures. To produce the results in the paper, we used [Anaconda version 2022.10](https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/).

```
conda create --name countx-environ python=3.7
conda activate countx-environ
pip install torch==1.10.0+cu111 torchvision==0.11.0+cu111 torchaudio==0.10.0 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html
pip install timm==0.3.2
pip install scipy
pip install imgaug
git clone git@github.com:niki-amini-naieni/CounTX.git
cd CounTX/open_clip
pip install .
```
* This repository uses [`timm==0.3.2`](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models), for which a [fix](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models/issues/420#issuecomment-776459842) is needed to work with PyTorch 1.8.1+. This fix can be implemented by replacing the file timm/models/layers/helpers.py in the timm codebase with the file [helpers.py](https://github.com/niki-amini-naieni/CounTX/blob/main/helpers.py) provided in this repository.

### CounTX Train

To train the model, run the following command after activating the Anaconda environment set up in step 2 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure to change the directory and file names to the ones you set up in step 1 of [Preparation](#preparation). 

```
nohup python train.py --output_dir "./results" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --gt_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/gt_density_map_adaptive_384_VarV2" --class_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/ImageClasses_FSC147.txt" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json" >>./training.log 2>&1 &
```

### CounTX Inference
To test a model, run the following commands after activating the Anaconda environment set up in step 2 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure to change the directory and file names to the ones you set up in step 1 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure that the model file name refers to the model you want to test. By default, models trained in [CounTX Train](#countx-train) will be saved as ./results/checkpoint-1000.pth.

For the validation set:

```
python test.py --data_split "val" --output_dir "./test" --resume "./results/checkpoint-1000.pth" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json"
```

For the test set:

```
python test.py --data_split "test" --output_dir "./test" --resume "./results/checkpoint-1000.pth" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json"
```

### Pre-Trained Weights

#### FSC-147

The model weights used in the paper can be downloaded from [Google Drive link (1.3 GB)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Vg5Mavkeg4Def8En3NhceiXa-p2Vb9MG/view?usp=sharing). To reproduce the results in the paper, run the following commands after activating the Anaconda environment set up in step 2 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure to change the directory and file names to the ones you set up in step 1 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure that the model file name refers to the model that you downloaded.

For the validation set:

```
python test_reproduce_paper.py --data_split "val" --output_dir "./test" --resume "paper-model.pth" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json"
```

For the test set:

```
python test_reproduce_paper.py --data_split "test" --output_dir "./test" --resume "paper-model.pth" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json"
```

#### CARPK
The model weights used in the paper can be downloaded from [Google Drive link (1.3 GB)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Xwe1FzljCmDpxdH1oNE2BGh9gmOX0nGR/view?usp=sharing). To reproduce the results in the paper, run the following commands after activating the Anaconda environment set up in step 2 of [Preparation](#preparation) and installing hub as described [here](https://docs.activeloop.ai/v/v2.6.0/quickstart). Make sure that the model file name refers to the model that you downloaded.

```
python test_carpk.py --resume "carpk.pth"
```

### Additional Qualitative Examples

Additional qualitative examples for CounTX not included in the main paper are provided [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18khXDBqd2-5M_zxeN0gqiXM52Pj4Zz3r/view?usp=sharing).

### Citation

```
@InProceedings{AminiNaieni23,
  author = "Amini-Naieni, N. and Amini-Naieni, K. and Han, T. and Zisserman, A.",
  title = "Open-world Text-specified Object Counting",
  booktitle = "British Machine Vision Conference",
  year = "2023",
}
```

### Acknowledgements

This repository is based on the [CounTR repository](https://github.com/Verg-Avesta/CounTR) and uses code from the [OpenCLIP repository](https://github.com/mlfoundations/open_clip). If you have any questions about our code implementation, please contact us at [niki.amini-naieni@eng.ox.ac.uk](mailto:niki.amini-naieni@eng.ox.ac.uk).

Commit message:

Update README.md with CountGD info

README.md, after:

## [BMVC 2023] CounTX: Open-world Text-specified Object Counting
*BMVC'2023 Best Poster Award Winner*

Niki Amini-Naieni, Kiana Amini-Naieni, Tengda Han, & Andrew Zisserman

Official PyTorch implementation for CounTX. Details can be found in the paper.
[[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01851v1) [[Project Page]](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/research/countx/)

### Update (July 8, 2024): Check out our new model, CountGD, that improves significantly on the performance of CounTX! [[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.04619) | [[Project Page]](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/research/countgd/) | [[Code]](https://github.com/niki-amini-naieni/CountGD/) | [[App to Quickly Try Out Model]](https://huggingface.co/spaces/nikigoli/countgd)

<img src=img/teaser.png width="100%"/>
<img src=img/architecture.png width="100%"/>

### Contents
* [Preparation](#preparation)
* [CounTX Train](#countx-train)
* [CounTX Inference](#countx-inference)
* [Pre-trained Weights (FSC-147 & CARPK)](#pre-trained-weights)
* [Using New Dataset](https://github.com/niki-amini-naieni/CounTX/issues/2#issuecomment-1961548998)
* [Additional Qualitative Examples](#additional-qualitative-examples)
* [Citation](#citation)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

### Preparation
#### 1. Download Dataset

In our project, the FSC-147 dataset is used.
Please visit following link to download this dataset.

* [FSC-147](https://github.com/cvlab-stonybrook/LearningToCountEverything)

We also use the text descriptions in FSC-147-D provided in this repository.

* [FSC-147-D](https://github.com/niki-amini-naieni/CounTX/blob/main/FSC-147-D.json)

Note that the image names in FSC-147 can be used to identify the corresponding text descriptions in FSC-147-D.

#### 2. Set Up Anaconda Environment:

The following commands will create a suitable Anaconda environment for running the CounTX training and inference procedures. To produce the results in the paper, we used [Anaconda version 2022.10](https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/).

```
conda create --name countx-environ python=3.7
conda activate countx-environ
pip install torch==1.10.0+cu111 torchvision==0.11.0+cu111 torchaudio==0.10.0 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html
pip install timm==0.3.2
pip install scipy
pip install imgaug
git clone git@github.com:niki-amini-naieni/CounTX.git
cd CounTX/open_clip
pip install .
```
* This repository uses [`timm==0.3.2`](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models), for which a [fix](https://github.com/rwightman/pytorch-image-models/issues/420#issuecomment-776459842) is needed to work with PyTorch 1.8.1+. This fix can be implemented by replacing the file timm/models/layers/helpers.py in the timm codebase with the file [helpers.py](https://github.com/niki-amini-naieni/CounTX/blob/main/helpers.py) provided in this repository.

### CounTX Train

To train the model, run the following command after activating the Anaconda environment set up in step 2 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure to change the directory and file names to the ones you set up in step 1 of [Preparation](#preparation). 

```
nohup python train.py --output_dir "./results" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --gt_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/gt_density_map_adaptive_384_VarV2" --class_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/ImageClasses_FSC147.txt" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json" >>./training.log 2>&1 &
```

### CounTX Inference
To test a model, run the following commands after activating the Anaconda environment set up in step 2 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure to change the directory and file names to the ones you set up in step 1 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure that the model file name refers to the model you want to test. By default, models trained in [CounTX Train](#countx-train) will be saved as ./results/checkpoint-1000.pth.

For the validation set:

```
python test.py --data_split "val" --output_dir "./test" --resume "./results/checkpoint-1000.pth" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json"
```

For the test set:

```
python test.py --data_split "test" --output_dir "./test" --resume "./results/checkpoint-1000.pth" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json"
```

### Pre-Trained Weights

#### FSC-147

The model weights used in the paper can be downloaded from [Google Drive link (1.3 GB)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Vg5Mavkeg4Def8En3NhceiXa-p2Vb9MG/view?usp=sharing). To reproduce the results in the paper, run the following commands after activating the Anaconda environment set up in step 2 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure to change the directory and file names to the ones you set up in step 1 of [Preparation](#preparation). Make sure that the model file name refers to the model that you downloaded.

For the validation set:

```
python test_reproduce_paper.py --data_split "val" --output_dir "./test" --resume "paper-model.pth" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json"
```

For the test set:

```
python test_reproduce_paper.py --data_split "test" --output_dir "./test" --resume "paper-model.pth" --img_dir "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/images_384_VarV2" --FSC147_anno_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/annotation_FSC147_384.json" --FSC147_D_anno_file "./FSC-147-D.json" --data_split_file "/scratch/local/hdd/nikian/Train_Test_Val_FSC_147.json"
```

#### CARPK
The model weights used in the paper can be downloaded from [Google Drive link (1.3 GB)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Xwe1FzljCmDpxdH1oNE2BGh9gmOX0nGR/view?usp=sharing). To reproduce the results in the paper, run the following commands after activating the Anaconda environment set up in step 2 of [Preparation](#preparation) and installing hub as described [here](https://docs.activeloop.ai/v/v2.6.0/quickstart). Make sure that the model file name refers to the model that you downloaded.

```
python test_carpk.py --resume "carpk.pth"
```

### Additional Qualitative Examples

Additional qualitative examples for CounTX not included in the main paper are provided [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18khXDBqd2-5M_zxeN0gqiXM52Pj4Zz3r/view?usp=sharing).

### Citation

```
@InProceedings{AminiNaieni23,
  author = "Amini-Naieni, N. and Amini-Naieni, K. and Han, T. and Zisserman, A.",
  title = "Open-world Text-specified Object Counting",
  booktitle = "British Machine Vision Conference",
  year = "2023",
}
```

### Acknowledgements

This repository is based on the [CounTR repository](https://github.com/Verg-Avesta/CounTR) and uses code from the [OpenCLIP repository](https://github.com/mlfoundations/open_clip). If you have any questions about our code implementation, please contact us at [niki.amini-naieni@eng.ox.ac.uk](mailto:niki.amini-naieni@eng.ox.ac.uk).
